---
layout: post
title: Palladio and Pedagogy
---

In the Programming Historian [Palladio tutorial](http://programminghistorian.org/lessons/creating-network-diagrams-from-historical-sources) we learn from Marten Düring about how to organize prose into a spreadsheet that can then be visualized on [Palladio](http://palladio.designhumanities.org/#/) as a way of exploring social networks. It is first and foremost a tutorial about organizing data and determining metadata protocols. 

In contrast to this, we also did a [tutorial](http://miriamposner.com/blog/getting-started-with-palladio/) by Miriam Posner that focuses mostly on the utility of Palladio and the various ways that it can be used. This took the oppostite approach as, ProgHist, focusing not so much on how the tool can be used to answer a specific research question, but more on what sorts of questions it can provide insight into. 

This difference in pedagogy is super interesting to me, because as I worked through my final project for this course, deciding how to approach each tool/utility/software was really challenging. I wanted to show participants all the super cool stuff that can be done with each one, but I also realized that this could cause people to get bored or lose track of the specific goals of our game. Despite being about the same online tool, which is really not a super complicated platform, the two tutorials are very different in scope, depth, and content. Düring focuses mostly on how you can take archival material, apply research questions, and choose the types of data and metadata that will best help the historian investigate their data, and then use Palladio as a tool to visualize and manipulate this data. Posner is focused more on assessing Palladio as a tool, and whether it is even the appropriate platform for the sorts of queries that are being posed. 

These are widely divergent approaches. In Posner's tutorial participants use data that someone else has chosen and organized, and Palladio is being used as almost an initial assement tool. By which I mean that she seems to be asking "what can this data tell us?" and then gets participants to explore the different types of visualization tools available to see what can be inferred. This presumes that the data-set is organized in such a way that these visualizations can reveal something legitimate about the original source material, howeveras we learn from Düring, the ways that data and metadata are constructed has a big impact on what sorts of questions we can ask, and also obviously impacts the answers or insights we find. So if whoever has organized the data-set and determined the metadata has made assumptions or applied modern bias to the source material, this can be extremely problematic. Düring mentions several times that he had to make choices about how to translate complex stories and phrases into an easy to parse spreadsheet, and even in the few examples he provided, I felt like I may have described or noted them in a way that is different from his decision, even if I was using the same metadata protocol that he designed. 

The subjectivity of metadata profoundly impacts the resultant work of any analysis done on it, and I appreciate that Düring is so open and clear about this in his tutorial. Posner's exploration of data is about more objective material, in that it is looking at the bare bones specifics of where and when a photo was taken, and so meta-metadata analysis of how information was organized or tagged is not useful or necessary. So digital historians not only have to choose what tools to use, but also *how* to use those tools, and how to frame and explain these decisions. 

Both of these Palladio tutorials are extremely useful to anyone wanting to visualize their data, but while some will need Düring's guidance for metadata analysis, other's may instead find Posner's tool tutorial much more useful. Wait... so not only do we have to choose our tool, and how we use our tool, and how to explain our choice of our tool, but we need to choose how we even learn to use it? Exhausting

But also fun, challenging, engaging, and extremely exciting. 