---
layout: post
title: Intro to Computers (for dummies)
---

What even IS a computer?

I have never used the command line before. I've seen it happen (my brother is a big egg-head and did a computer science degree) but I have never felt comfortable enough in my knowledge or skills to touch the "back end" of any of the machines I have owned. I signed up for this course knowing that I would learn amazingly marketeable skills that would not only look good on a resume but would also actually help me do the kinds of work that I want to be doing in my historical research. 

I'm like a kid in a candy shop. This is amazing! I'm like Penny from Inspector Gadget (a lifelong hero). I will defeat the evil Doctor Claw (here analogous with bland old school stodgy academic history)!! 

I don't know how many of these tools I will continue to use after this course. GitHub is really interesting as a way of sharing and collaborating, but until I actually work with another person on those documents, I don't know how well I can assess its utility. I am loving that it is simultaneously backup storage and organizing space. Never again shall I be forced to email myself documents and powerpoints, but also I'm not trapped by the restrictions inherent in spaces like GoogleDocs or Dropbox. 

But really it isn't the tools or programs that really matter. It's learning to be comfortable with finding, downloading, and trouble-shooting these sorts of things, so that eventually I will know enough to be able to be critical about the sorts of tools I want to use in the future. I get to learn how my computer really operates and, most importantly, learn enough so that I know what to Google when things go wrong. 

I cannot even begin to count the hours I have spent attempting to format documents, or remove formatting, and having no idea why it wasn't working. Knowing that there are solutions that are actually accessible to me is so deeply heartening. 

The Pandoc tutorial was so beautiful for me. I felt like a wizard. My undergrad honours thesis had a ton of images and the footnotes, for various reasons, were extremely complex. I have vivid memories of the weekend before it was due, when I spent two 18 hour days in the library reformatting EVERYTHING because I had been working in the wrong citation format, and the new footnotes took up less space, which did absolutley horrible things to image placement. It was awful. Knowing now that I could have solved both issues in a matter of an hour or two with these tools is simultaneously wildly frustrating (hello, why did no one teach me this before???) and deeply empowering. As long as I am smart about how I use this beautiful piece of technology, I may never have to struggle with these things again. 

.... until something goes wrong, of course. 
