---
layout: post
title: OCR`:` Objectional Choices Recognition
---

How cool would it be to do OCR (Object Character Recognition)? Pretty darn cool! I have no idea why I find this so fascinating as a process, but for whatever reason, the notion that I can take a piece of paper, scan it, do some 'hacker magic', and have a searchable text as the outcome is just.... SO cool. My knees are weak. 

Sadly, the tutorial that was on the schedule for us to learn how to OCR was not quite up to snuff, and so we did not get an opportunity to become OCR wizards. 

But that didn't stop me! I went on a quest for a basic tutorial that didn't require me to download a bunch of bulky or questionable software. The one I came across that seemed best was written by [Ryan Baumann](https://ryanfb.github.io/) of the [Duke Collaboratory for Classics Computing](https://blogs.library.duke.edu/dcthree/). 

Side note: what is it about the humanities that makes people so good at teaching people about digital tools? 

It was [this tutorial](https://ryanfb.github.io/etc/2014/11/13/command_line_ocr_on_mac_os_x.html#fn:merging) that I ended up following in my noble quest to do my very own OCR. I appreciated that it was very straightforward but that there were footnotes where he explained his reasons for using a certain command string, and he was open and clear about his edits and how the tutorial has changed over time. 

So I download the necessary software, get everything set up, toss a pdf into a new directory, open Terminal, punch in the commands, and await my beautiful new searchable pdf. Glee! 

But... it didn't work. Sad trombone. 

And yet again, as I learned when I [wrested with Python](http://phoebemannell.github.io/Python/), I ended up learning way more about the framework of my computer and the software I was trying to use through the troubleshooting process. 

At first I was blinded by my wrath at the fact that step 3 wasn't working (all that happened when I input the command was a blinking cursor). I searched and searched for a reason for why this was happening, and everything that I found basically said that the command was not complete, basically that there was something missing from the instructions I was giving my computer. This made no sense, since obviously a bunch of people had gone through the tutorial and it had worked just fine for them. But because step 2 had *seemed* like it worked, it didn't even cross my mind to go and check. So I wrote it off as "a bug I guess" and grouchily just combined all of the .txt files that had been generated by step 2 into a single file, and started looking for a quick and easy way to turn it into a .pdf. 

Which, in retrospect, was pretty silly. Why make more work for myself when I hadn't even properly figured out what went wrong? I came back to this little side project a few weeks later when I had a few hours of free time, and it was only at this point that I realized that something had gone wrong in step 2. This step uses [Tesseract](https://github.com/tesseract-ocr/tesseract/wiki) to OCR the separated .tif files that were made in step 1 (which, I checked, occurred as expected). When I input the command for step two, I get this: 

`Tesseract Open Source OCR Engine v3.04.00 with Leptonica
Page 1
Warning in pixReadMemTiff: tiff page 1 not found`

Despite the warning, for each .tif Tesseract does create a .txt file of the text, which it has recognized to an admirably high degree of accuracy, and also creates a .pdf, but this is not searchable. And despite trying about seventeen different iterations of commands, varying from the basic ones provided in the Tesseract manual to the more complex one suggested in Ryan's tutorial, I just cannot get it to work. 

So I didn't manage to create a searchable pdf, but at least I did use an OCR software and make a .txt file that I could probably so something nifty with. What I learned from this was that I need to always check to ensure each step works properly, and if I don't understand what I am doing, maybe I should check it out. I still have no idea why Ryan's command is structured the way it is, since it does not reflect the syntax in the Tesseract manual, and I don't know what this "page 1" is that Tesseract is even looking for. 

And so my quest continues... 




