---
layout: post
title: Irregular Expressions
---

The goal of [this tutorial](http://programminghistorian.org/lessons/understanding-regular-expressions) from Programming Historian is to introduce people to the use of RegEx language in cleaning up and organizing raw 'prose' data into tabular or comma-separated formats. It is a necessary step for doing any kind of meta-analysis of the contents of the archival documents, as it is this creation of inter-related columns and rows that will allow other analytic tools to 

For a few of us (both mac and windows) replacing <$> with <nothing> turned the document into one single line, not many single lines for each paragraph health record. There is something about this command that does not work properly, as it does not create the indicated specific outcome that the writer indicates should occur. The solution I came up with is that having run and re-run the command (and trying my best to edit it and change it to try to get the desired outcome), the best I can do is to go through the document and insert line breaks where they should be based on the original text. Tedious. 

And now, several replaces down the line, I've gotten to the ^([A-Za-z .]+\t<t>) replace and I am finding nothing. Copy and pasting the entire text into the spreadsheet does not show the third column for some lines as it does in the tutorial. I have no idea why not. And that is really frustrating. I want to understand what I've done and how and why I've done it. The tutorial does say that it is meant to give you a taste of what RegEx can do, rather than give you knowledge of the entire complex language, and I deeply appreciate the glossary of what each of the symbols do. But this is an alphabet, not a language, and understanding how they all link together to form a useful phrase that can help find, locate, and organize the information from your archive is far more complex. They did give us building blocks, and from there we could return to our personal corpus of text to work with. 

I did appreciate that it was apparent that the writers were intimately familiar with the archival materials, but this should be more blatantly discussed, because the way that a digital historian is going to approach their data will be shaped *most* by the archival material itself. This is not discussed sufficiently in the tutorial. 

**I come back to this now, at the turn of the tide!**

Having used Regular Expressions in the prep work for my final project for this class, I returned to this tutorial quite a few times, especially when we were trying to work out original regular expressions that would meet the criteria for a text that is quite long and messy (in terms of repeated phrases). It was frustrating that we felt we had to work from scratch, despite having both this tutorial and several other online resources. When I initially went through this tutorial, I felt frustrated that one step wasn't working for me and that I didn't understand how to fix what was going wrong. The fairly easy (though pedagogically useless) solution was that I went through the file by hand, and I knew that when creating a tutorial for others, who might get frustrated at such a tedious step and give up, that this sort of fix just wouldn't fly. We needed better solutions, *especially* if the express goal is to get historians to try these tools out on their own data. 

What we decided on was transparancy. In our final project we are going to discuss these issues, and supply a meta-narrative of how we dealt with *building* the tutorial, and the struggles we went through trying to get a tutorial to apply to an entirely different file which was probably OCR'd by a different program and had unique issues with text recognition. And while we do not have the capability to explain the RegEx phrases we designed, we can link our 'students' to tutorials like these, and others, that helped US figure out what WE were doing, so that they do not have to go searching quite so far to find their own solutions. 