---
layout: post
title: SPARQL!
---

I will admit, I chose to lead this tutorial because the name was cute and I had no idea what anything on the list was. A cute, friendly, unassuming name like SPARQL? Gotta be straight forward and easy-peasy, right?

Wrong. Wolf in sheeps clothing. Not all the sparqls is gold. 

Shawn made sure to check in with me and explain that the language used in SPARQL queries is complex and rather less than intuitive, but that it is predicated on English grammatical structure, and so while the vocab is bonkers, at least the structure is logical. 

The idea of Linked Open Data (LOD) is facinating. I have previously worked quite a bit with Excel (and similar) databases and data structuring software to deal with things like sports tournaments, student information, and (ugh) budgets. One theme common to all of these experiences? Realizing well into the data gathering and ordering process that my initial assumptions about how to organize the spreadsheet is limiting, doesn't do what I need it to do, or necessitates 5 billion steps to do something that *feels* like it should be a simple operation. 

LOD style databases negates this wild struggle by allowing the datum to roam free-range, only to be corralled into columns and rows by specific questions. Like cattle on the range, datum are branded thematically, so all the dairy cow datum have the same brand, and all the beef steer datum have a different brand. The queries are designed to round up the cattle and group them in holding pens beside each other in as many ways as you can imagine. What kinds of cattle you grab and how you organize them next to other groups allows you to really know your herd.... I mean... your data... I took the metaphor too far. The point is, you can put a cow next to a steer because it is the same colour, or because it is the same height, or because they have the same parent. The ways you pair up and create/choose relationships to represent between the data-cattle is not predetermined. 

In the [tutorial](http://programminghistorian.org/lessons/graph-databases-and-SPARQL), the author uses paintings to explain. Every painting has information about it (metadata) that describes it and its history. Medium, artist, date of creation, country of origin, institution that owns it, etc. If you were to put all of this information into a spreadsheet, it would be difficult to cross-examine these different kinds of information, especially when your research questions become more complex. If you have a corpus of data (in this case about objects), and you want to know how many of each kind of object you have were created by Dutch artists, you can herd your data into the requisite corrals to indicate these relationships. 