---
layout: post
title: Changing my Workflow
--- 

I will admit that when I first did the [Sustainable Authorship using Pandoc and Markdown tutorial](http://programminghistorian.org/lessons/sustainable-authorship-in-plain-text-using-pandoc-and-markdown) from Programming Historian that I mentioned in my [first post](http://phoebemannell.github.io/Intro/), I thought it was super neat, but then I moved on, grad school kept happening, and I quickly reverted to using Microsoft Word. This month, as I began preparing to start researching and writing my term papers in earnest, I realized that if I want what I am learning in this class to have a real impact in my life that I have to actively apply the principles and skills to my 'non-digital' work in history. 

Though really all of the work I do is digital, since the majority of the research I do is online, and I write almost exclusively on my computer. We just pretend that this doesn't 'count' as digital humanities or history work because that just seems too newfangled and experimental. I digress. 

I returned to the tutorial with a new mindset. I was not here to learn a new nifty skill, I was here to figure out how, and to what extent, I could alter my workflow to better suit the kind of projects I do. I didn't want to needlessly complexify my process just for the sake of application of new skills, I wanted to streamline while ensuring that in five years I am still able to access and work on the files I create from day to day. And not just my final products! I have plenty of undergrad papers for which I have absolutely no research notes, and so I really don't know how or why I came to certain conclusions, or why I chose to focus on one source over another, and I don't even have context for the evidence that I used, much of which I no longer have access to. 

Bad form for an academic. 

The Pandoc tutorial offers useful and accessible solutions to the chaos that is academic writing. Since my goal is to be able to not only streamline but also organize myself, I looked not only at the mechanics of the process, but also how the author was setting up their directory. And though it is not directly addressed in the text, it is apparent that the file names do have to be blatant and clear, a protocol I have followed only sporadically in my past. The images from my undergrad thesis (that I also mentioned in that previous post) are scattered amongst the hundreds of other images that I accrued through my research, and finding them again is a chore. The practice of copying the images, renaming them to something obvious, and putting them in the master directory which also has my text files is something I know I am going to enact in all my future work. It seems kind of pointless not to. 

And as much as I do love doing citations, it usually takes me several hours to format bibliographies and footnotes properly, while it only took me about 30 minutes to input all 20 sources I *might* use into Zotero, and it took about 15 minutes to find the correct citations .csl format file. Definitely a time saver. I'm not sure how long it will take to find a .css stylsheet that I like for the final document, but I bet that will take less time than going through and carefully formatting a 20 page paper when I'm burnt out from writing and editing. 

So my hidden "gotcha" from this tutorial? Realizing that a major part of doing *any* history is respecting the form and function of the environment in which I work. A computer is a tool through which we can either do good, efficient, expansive work, or through which we can entrench ourselves in chaotic, disordered work that cannot achieve expectations because it is hog-tied by a refusal to engage fully with the medium in which almost all historians work. 
